## pray much

Masterfully stated by J. C. Ryle. Oh, that I would pray much!

> There are some of the Lord's people who seem ***never able to get on*** from the time of their conversion. They are born again, but they remain babes all their lives. You hear from them the same old experience. You remark in them the same want of spiritual appetite, the same want of interest in any thing beyond their own little circle, which you remarked ten years ago. They are pilgrims, indeed, but pilgrims like the Gibeonites of old; their bread is always dry and mouldy, their shoes always old, and their garments always rent and torn. I say this with sorrow and grief; but I ask any real Christian, Is it not true?
>
> There are others of the Lord's people who seem to be ***always advancing***. They grow like the grass after rain; they increase like Israel in Egypt; they press on like Gideon, though sometimes faint, yet always pursuing. They are ever adding grace to grace, and faith to faith, and strength to strength. Every time you meet them their hearts seem larger, and their spiritual stature taller and stronger. Every year they appear to see more, and know more, and believe more, and feel more in their religion. They not only have good works to prove the reality of their faith, but they are ***zealous*** of them. They not only do well, but they are ***unwearied*** in well-doing. They attempt great things, and they do great things. When they fail they try again, and when they fall they are soon up again. And all this time they think themselves poor, unprofitable servants, and fancy they do nothing at all. These are those who make religion lovely and beautiful in the eyes of all. They wrest praise even from the unconverted and win golden opinions even from the selfish men of the world.
>
> It does one good to see, to be with, and to hear them. When you meet them, you could believe that like Moses, they had just come out from the presence of God. When you part with them you feel warmed by their company, as if your soul had been near a fire. I know such people are rare. I only ask, Are there not many such?
>
> Now how can we account for the difference which I have just described? What is the reason that some believers are so much brighter and holier than others? I believe the difference, in nineteen cases out of twenty, arises from different habits about private prayer. I believe that those who are not eminently holy pray ***little***, and those who are eminently holy pray ***much***.

-J. C. Ryle, *A Call to Prayer*

<details markdown="1">
<summary>daily reading</summary>

| Dec. 12, 2024 |
| :-------------: |
| [Deut. 17; Ps. 104; Isa. 44; Rev. 14](https://blog.swang.cloud/2024/12/03/Bible-year-1/) |
| [WCF 16; WLC 101-106; WSC 57-62](https://blog.swang.cloud/2024/11/27/westminster-month-1/) |
| [The Apostles' Creed](https://threeforms.org/the-apostles-creed/) |

</details>